`Kubectl` is a command line tool that you use to communicate with the Kubernetes API server. 

## Installation

Determine whether you already have `kubectl` installed on your device.

```bash
kubectl version
```

###### To install or update `kubectl` on Linux
* Kubernetes `1.26`
a.
```shell
curl -O https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/amazon-eks/1.26.2/2023-03-17/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
```

```shell
curl -O https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/amazon-eks/1.26.2/2023-03-17/bin/linux/arm64/kubectl
```


b. (Optional) Verify the downloaded binary with the `SHA-256` checksum for your binary.

1.  Download the `SHA-256` checksum for your cluster's Kubernetes version from Amazon S3 using the command for your device's hardware platform. The first link for each version is for `amd64` and the second link is for `arm64`.
    
    -   Kubernetes `1.26`
    ```shell
    curl -O https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/amazon-eks/1.26.2/2023-03-17/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl.sha256
```

```shell
curl -O https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/amazon-eks/1.26.2/2023-03-17/bin/linux/arm64/kubectl.sha256
```

2. Check the `SHA-256` checksum for your downloaded binary with one of the following commands.
```bash
sha256sum -c kubectl.sha256
```

3.   When using this command, make sure that you see the following output:
    
    `kubectl: OK`

```bash
openssl sha1 -sha256 kubectl
```

When using this command, make sure that the generated checksum in the output matches in the checksum in the downloaded `kubectl.sha256` file.

c. Apply execute permissions to the binary.

```shell
chmod +x ./kubectl
```

d. Copy the binary to a folder in your `PATH`. If you have already installed a version of `kubectl`, then we recommend creating a `$HOME/bin/kubectl` and ensuring that `$HOME/bin` comes first in your `$PATH`.

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/bin && cp ./kubectl $HOME/bin/kubectl && export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin
```

e. (Optional) Add the `$HOME/bin` path to your shell initialization file so that it is configured when you open a shell. (This step assumes you are using the Bash shell; if you are using another shell, change the command to use your specific shell initialization file.)

```shell
echo 'export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/bin' >> ~/.bashrc
```

f. After you install `kubectl`, you can verify its version.

```bash
kubectl version --short --client
```



